README.md, before:

===================================================

> Currently: V, 0.45

> Firstly, we need to give credit where credit is due. Thank you very much to https://github.com/grahamperrin for many contributions he made to documentation! This includes: Helping a ton with formatting, Adding a doc for older cards,anbed more! If he makes a contribution again, I'll add him as a contributor. I couldn't last time, because I didn't know how to manage pull requests.

> 0.41 Accidentally put sysrc sddm_enable="YES" in the GNOME part.

> 0.42 **also very minor formatting changes

> 0.43 add kitty terminal to install w/ hyprland

> 0.44 add wifimgr, it's useful

> 0.45 Only the Virtualbox kernel module needs building, not the entire thing. Thanks Alexander88207. fixed "Ididium" typo, thanks Setesh.

> Give me a ping in the FreeBSD Discord server if you need help!: https://discord.gg/freebsd

### Jump right into FreeBSD!


*RUN ALL COMMANDS BELOW AS ROOT! 

TO BECOME ROOT, RUN: 

```
 su
```
Password:

```
(The root password you set)
```
===================================================

## VIDEO DRIVERS:

# Intel:

```
pkg install drm-kmod && sysrc kld_list+=i915kms
```

# AMD: 

```
(AMD Radeon HD7000 and newer): pkg install drm-kmod && sysrc kld_list+=amdgpu
```

> Older card? No problem!

```
pkg install drm-kmod && sysrc kld_list+=radeonkms
```

# NVIDIA: 

> Newer cards, GTX 9XX and newer:

```
'pkg install nvidia-driver && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia-modeset'
```

> Older card? You can install older drivers!:

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-304 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia' *note this version requires an older version of XORG
```

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-340 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia
```

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-390 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia-modeset
```

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-470 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia-modeset
```

After you run the command for your graphics provider, run: 

```
pw groupmod video -m username
```

===================================================

## DESKTOP ENVIRONMENTS (XORG):

If you're using an X-based DE, install XORG first!

```
pkg install xorg
```

# KDE PLASMA: 

```
pkg install kde5 sddm && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

# KDE PLASMA MINIMAL: 

```
pkg install plasma5-plasma konsole dolphin sddm && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

# GNOME: 

```
pkg install gnome && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc gdm_enable="YES"
```

# GNOME MINIMAL: 

```
pkg install gnome-lite gnome-terminal && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc gdm_enable="YES"
```

# XFCE: 

```
pkg install xfce lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc lightdm_enable="YES"
```

# MATE: 

```
pkg install mate lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && pkg install && sysrc lightdm-enable="YES"
```

# MATE MINIMAL: 

```
pkg install mate-base mate-terminal lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc lightdm-enable="YES"
```

# CINNAMON: 

```
'pkg install cinnamon lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc lightdm_enable="YES"
```

# LXQT: 

```
pkg install lxqt sddm && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

## Compositors (Wayland)

```
14.1 fixed many issues with Wayland, so now this section of the guide is applicable!
```

Before anything, install Wayland and SeatD:

```
pkg install wayland seatd && sysrc seatd_enable="YES" && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && service seatd start
```

# HYPRLAND:

```
pkg install hyprland kitty
```

# Sway:

```
pkg install sway foot **Base sway, have a look at this for things like lock screens: https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/handbook/wayland/#wayland-sway
```

# SwayFX:

```
pkg install swayfx foot
```

# Hikari:

```
Coming soon!
```

# Login Managers:

```
pkg install lightdm && sysrc lightdm_enable="YES"
```

```
pkg install sddm && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

```
pkg install gdm && sysrc gdm_enable="YES" **Not recommended because it will more than likely install extra GNOME utilities you don't need.
```

===================================================

## WEB BROWSERS: (Ranked heaviest to lightest btw!)

# FIREFOX: 

```
pkg install firefox
```

# CHROMIUM 

```
pkg install chromium
```

# IDIDIUM BROWSER: 

```
pkg install iridium-browser
```

# FALKON: 

```
pkg install falkon
```

# KONQUEROR: 

```
pkg install konqueror

```

# EPIPHANY (GNOME WEB): 

```
pkg install epiphany
```

# QUTEBROWSER: 

```
pkg install qutebrowser
```

# DILLO: 
```
pkg install dillo
```

# LINKS: 
```
pkg install links
```

# W3M:

```
pkg install w3m
```

===================================================

## VIRTUALIZATION:

# VIRTUALBOX: (Note, currently, in 8 June 2024, FreeBSD 14.1 requires compiling the Virtualbox kernel module. to get it working. It takes longer (only takes a couple minutes), but it still works!)

```
cd /usr/ports/emulators/virtualbox-ose-kmod/ make install clean && pkg install virtualbox-ose && kldload vboxdrv
```

```
ee /boot/loader.conf, add the line vboxdrv_load="YES" After, to exit ee, press "ESC + Enter" at the same tme, then the "A" key!
```

```
sysrc vboxnet_enable="YES" && pw groupmod vboxusers -m username
```

```
ee /etc/devfs.conf', add below!

own     vboxnetctl root:vboxusers
perm    vboxnetctl 0660
```

> Continue if you want USB support!

```
pw groupmod operator -m username
```

```
ee /etc/devfs.rules' (doesn't exist yet, dont worry if it says it's new!) Add below:

[system=10]
add path 'usb/*' mode 0660 group operator
```

```
sysrc devfs_system_ruleset="system" && service devfs restart
```

# BHYVE:

```
Coming soon!
```

===================================================

## Extra Wireless Options

> Don't want to edit wpa_supplicant all the time just to connect to another Wi-Fi network? Try wifimgr!

```
pkg install wifimgr
```

===================================================

> Have fun with FreeBSD!

===================================================

> Source of information: https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/handbook/

===================================================

> By: coolguy71 

===================================================

Commit message:

must be in virtualbox group

README.md, after:

===================================================

> Currently: V, 0.45

> Firstly, we need to give credit where credit is due. Thank you very much to https://github.com/grahamperrin for many contributions he made to documentation! This includes: Helping a ton with formatting, Adding a doc for older cards,anbed more! If he makes a contribution again, I'll add him as a contributor. I couldn't last time, because I didn't know how to manage pull requests.

> 0.41 Accidentally put sysrc sddm_enable="YES" in the GNOME part.

> 0.42 **also very minor formatting changes

> 0.43 add kitty terminal to install w/ hyprland

> 0.44 add wifimgr, it's useful

> 0.45 Only the Virtualbox kernel module needs building, not the entire thing. Thanks Alexander88207. fixed "Ididium" typo, thanks Setesh.

> 0.46 (minor update) Added entry for the user to be in the vboxusers group.

> Give me a ping in the FreeBSD Discord server if you need help!: https://discord.gg/freebsd

### Jump right into FreeBSD!


*RUN ALL COMMANDS BELOW AS ROOT! 

TO BECOME ROOT, RUN: 

```
 su
```
Password:

```
(The root password you set)
```
===================================================

## VIDEO DRIVERS:

# Intel:

```
pkg install drm-kmod && sysrc kld_list+=i915kms
```

# AMD: 

```
(AMD Radeon HD7000 and newer): pkg install drm-kmod && sysrc kld_list+=amdgpu
```

> Older card? No problem!

```
pkg install drm-kmod && sysrc kld_list+=radeonkms
```

# NVIDIA: 

> Newer cards, GTX 9XX and newer:

```
'pkg install nvidia-driver && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia-modeset'
```

> Older card? You can install older drivers!:

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-304 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia' *note this version requires an older version of XORG
```

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-340 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia
```

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-390 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia-modeset
```

```
pkg install nvidia-driver-470 && sysrc kld_list+=nvidia-modeset
```

After you run the command for your graphics provider, run: 

```
pw groupmod video -m username
```

===================================================

## DESKTOP ENVIRONMENTS (XORG):

If you're using an X-based DE, install XORG first!

```
pkg install xorg
```

# KDE PLASMA: 

```
pkg install kde5 sddm && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

# KDE PLASMA MINIMAL: 

```
pkg install plasma5-plasma konsole dolphin sddm && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

# GNOME: 

```
pkg install gnome && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc gdm_enable="YES"
```

# GNOME MINIMAL: 

```
pkg install gnome-lite gnome-terminal && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc gdm_enable="YES"
```

# XFCE: 

```
pkg install xfce lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc lightdm_enable="YES"
```

# MATE: 

```
pkg install mate lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && pkg install && sysrc lightdm-enable="YES"
```

# MATE MINIMAL: 

```
pkg install mate-base mate-terminal lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc lightdm-enable="YES"
```

# CINNAMON: 

```
'pkg install cinnamon lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc lightdm_enable="YES"
```

# LXQT: 

```
pkg install lxqt sddm && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

## Compositors (Wayland)

```
14.1 fixed many issues with Wayland, so now this section of the guide is applicable!
```

Before anything, install Wayland and SeatD:

```
pkg install wayland seatd && sysrc seatd_enable="YES" && sysrc dbus_enable="YES" && service seatd start
```

# HYPRLAND:

```
pkg install hyprland kitty
```

# Sway:

```
pkg install sway foot **Base sway, have a look at this for things like lock screens: https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/handbook/wayland/#wayland-sway
```

# SwayFX:

```
pkg install swayfx foot
```

# Hikari:

```
Coming soon!
```

# Login Managers:

```
pkg install lightdm && sysrc lightdm_enable="YES"
```

```
pkg install sddm && sysrc sddm_enable="YES"
```

```
pkg install gdm && sysrc gdm_enable="YES" **Not recommended because it will more than likely install extra GNOME utilities you don't need.
```

===================================================

## WEB BROWSERS: (Ranked heaviest to lightest btw!)

# FIREFOX: 

```
pkg install firefox
```

# CHROMIUM 

```
pkg install chromium
```

# IDIDIUM BROWSER: 

```
pkg install iridium-browser
```

# FALKON: 

```
pkg install falkon
```

# KONQUEROR: 

```
pkg install konqueror

```

# EPIPHANY (GNOME WEB): 

```
pkg install epiphany
```

# QUTEBROWSER: 

```
pkg install qutebrowser
```

# DILLO: 
```
pkg install dillo
```

# LINKS: 
```
pkg install links
```

# W3M:

```
pkg install w3m
```

===================================================

## VIRTUALIZATION:

# VIRTUALBOX: (Note, currently, in 8 June 2024, FreeBSD 14.1 requires compiling the Virtualbox kernel module. to get it working. It takes longer (only takes a couple minutes), but it still works!)

```
cd /usr/ports/emulators/virtualbox-ose-kmod/ make install clean && pkg install virtualbox-ose && kldload vboxdrv
```

```
pw groupmod vboxusers -m username
```

```
ee /boot/loader.conf, add the line vboxdrv_load="YES" After, to exit ee, press "ESC + Enter" at the same tme, then the "A" key!
```

```
sysrc vboxnet_enable="YES" && pw groupmod vboxusers -m username
```

```
ee /etc/devfs.conf', add below!

own     vboxnetctl root:vboxusers
perm    vboxnetctl 0660
```

> Continue if you want USB support!

```
pw groupmod operator -m username
```

```
ee /etc/devfs.rules' (doesn't exist yet, dont worry if it says it's new!) Add below:

[system=10]
add path 'usb/*' mode 0660 group operator
```

```
sysrc devfs_system_ruleset="system" && service devfs restart
```

# BHYVE:

```
Coming soon!
```

===================================================

## Extra Wireless Options

> Don't want to edit wpa_supplicant all the time just to connect to another Wi-Fi network? Try wifimgr!

```
pkg install wifimgr
```

===================================================

> Have fun with FreeBSD!

===================================================

> Source of information: https://docs.freebsd.org/en/books/handbook/

===================================================

> By: coolguy71 

===================================================
